# ParthenoGenius - Levine *et al.* in prep

## Summary
ParthenoGenius is a python program that tests for evidence and mode of parthenogenesis. ParthenoGenius takes as an input file a csv containing the SNP or microsatellite genotypes of a mother and a single offspring (i.e., hypothesized to be a parthenogen). ParthenoGenius first identifies all loci at which the mother is homozygous. It then scans offspring genotypes at these loci for genotypes that differ from the maternal homozygous genotype. If the proportion of maternal homozygous loci at which the offspring exhibits a different genotype from the mother exceeds the default or user-defined sequencing error rate, the offspring is not called as a parthenogen, and it is concluded that offspring alleles that differ from the maternal alleles at maternal homozygous loci are paternal alleles. If this is the case, the program produces only two files: (1) a list of all loci at which the mother is homozygous and those loci at which the offspring genotype differs from the maternal homozgyous genotype, and (2) a summary file describing the number of loci at which the mother is homozygous, the proportion of maternal homozygous loci at which the offspring exhibits alleles that differ from the maternal genotype, and a statement that the offspring is unlikely to be a parthenogen. If the proportion of maternal homozygous loci at which the offspring exhibits alleles that differ from the maternal genotypes is less than or equal to the default or user-defined sequencing error rate, the offspring is called as a likely parthenogen, and it is concluded that alleles that differ from the maternal alleles at these loci are the result of sequencing error rather than paternal alleles. If this is the case, the above two files are generated, but the homozygosity summary file states that the offspring is a likely parthenogen. Further, the proportion of maternal homozygous loci at which offspring alleles differ from the maternal homozygous genotypes is taken as an updated estimate of the sequencing error rate.
